---
layout: post
title: "2025 App Tour!"
date: 2025-07-02
categories: architecture 
tags: docker linux docker-compose traefik
image:
   path: /assets/headers/
---

## 🤔 Binaries, Container, and Operating Systems Oh My!

Now that we have the hardware all squared away, let's talk Operating Systems and Applications. I like to run what is consider a two-tier architecture. This means I keep my compute and applications on one machine(s) and my storage on another. I am a big fan of iSCSI and NFS for this purpose. I run most of my file and block services over TrueNAS and my application and Virtual Machines on Proxmox. When it comes to containerization, I use Docker and Docker Compose to orchestrate all my containers via a few files. 


## 🖥️ Operating Systems

### NAS OS - TrueNAS
TrueNAS is my OS of choice for my storage. It's fast, reliable, and has a great Web UI to display and monitor all of my storage. I really like ZFS resiliency and robustness. ZFS data scrubbing feature is key has it helps prevent bit rot on less used files. Recently, IX Systems has been switching the underlying technologies of TrueNAS so I am somewhat hesitant the keep using it. But as it stands right now, it is rock solid product with a great UI and feature set.

### Hypervisor OS - Proxmox
As I alluded in my Proxmox post, I really like Proxmox's flexible and resiliency. It's native backup features are pretty slick though. I simply put connect a NFS share and point the backup job to it and we are good to go! I do find the UI to be somewhat cumbersome and that a lot of what I think I UI features seem to be only available via the CLI, like adding an L2 ARC or SLOG to a ZFS pool. It's networking design and UI are more complex too so I would stick to simple interfaces or bonds. Overall though, it's a wonderful open-source project and I think it is prefect for a Homelab or SMB looking for a virtualization solution. If you are doing to deploy it in production, I would buy the support! 

### Ubuntu
Ubuntu is my flavor of choice for Linux. I like it because it has a massive community and is flexible enough for most things I am doing. I do find Snap to be rather annoying and not great to use. Professionally, I use RHEL. I love that OS, but find it a bit more cumbersome to work with at home where I am not as concerned with compliance and security. 

## 🐳 Containers

### Docker
I like the use Docker for the same reasons I like to use Ubuntu. It has a massive community and is flexible for my needs. I am not super thrilled with all the licensing issues, but it works for me. I am looking into Podman or Kubernetes. However, most of my Kubernetes deployments have been more trouble than they are worth. 

## 📲 Applications

